Metadata for the dataset used in the paper "The reorganization of predator-prey networks over 20  million years explains extinction patterns of mammalian carnivores"
Author(s): Nascimento, João; Blanco, Fernando; Domingo, M. Soledad; Cantalapiedra, Juan; Pires, Mathias

Code:
These files include the necessary steps to reproduce the analysis of the paper, in order:
0. load_data
1. Iberica_networks
2. longevity_and_extinction
3. msm_model

The following files the the folder "data" include the raw data used in the paper: 

age_sites.txt:
Data file containing the estimated ages for each locality in the dataset. each column represents:
1. Site: the name of the locality
2. MIN age: the minimum age of each locality in millions of years.
3. MAX age: the maximum age of each locality in millions of years
4. Geological unit: the biozones to which each locality belongs in the Mammal Neogene zones.

communities_iberian.txt:
Species composition of each locality, in which each species represented by a row and each column represents a locality. 
If a species is present in a given community, it the entry equals 1, and 0 otherwise.

functional_data.txt:
Datatable containing taxonomic and functional information for each species.
columns 1-4: taxonomic classificaiton of each species.
column 5: body size: estimated species body size in kilograms (Kg)
column 6: diet: inferred dietary habit of each species (Grazer, browser, frugivore, mixed feeder, carnivore, invertebrate carnivore, hypercarnivore, omnivore or scavenger).
column 7: locomotion: inferred locomotion mode of each species (Ambulatory, cursorial, scansorial, aquatic or arboreal)

Modules.txt:
Data file presenting the module to which each locality in the dataset was assinged to in a modularity analysis by Blanco et al. (2021) using the MPO filter described in the methodology.
It contains 2 columns:
1. Site: the name of the locality
2. Module: the module to which the locality was assigned to. 
 

The folder "results" contain the results obtained with the analysis. 


